# FAERS
FDA Adverse Event Tracking: Data Analysis Project

In this project, data analysis was conducted on the FAERS dataset, which stands for the FDA (Food & Drug Administration) Adverse Event Reporting System. The primary goal of this project was to create several classification models for this dataset using the given response variables dechal and rechal, short for dechallenge and rechallenge. We hoped to use methods and models learned over the semester to accurately predict these response variables. Additionally, this project gave us more experience with data cleaning, manipulation, modeling, and reporting. We found 12 predictor variables to be significant predictors of our response variables, as described in our logistic regression analysis. These variables were age, age_cod, sex, wt, wt_cod, to_mfr, occp_cod, reporter_country, occr_country, role_cod, route, and outc_cod. The pruned classification tree for Dechal using 2020 Q4 data had 4 terminal nodes, a residual mean deviance of 1.702, and a misclassification error rate of 0.418. The pruned tree for Rechal using 2020 Q4 data had 3 terminal nodes, a residual mean deviance of 0.9726, and a misclassification error rate of 0.156. The occp_cod variable (reporter occupation) equal to “consumer” is the most important predictor of the outcome of rechal and dechal, as it is the first split in both trees. The KNN models also proved to be the best predictors of rechal and dechal compared with LDA, QDA, and Naive Bayes. With k=5, using 2020 Q4 for rechalY had a predictive accuracy of 90.60%, and rechalN had a predictive accuracy of 95.23%. The k-nearest neighbors algorithm analysis model for dechalY using 2020 Q4 for dechalY had a predictive accuracy of 61.72%, and dechalN had a predictive accuracy of 76.95%. 
